---
layout: default
title: "Bypassing phone number verification"
tags: poc web infosec
---
Hey you! In this post I'll show you how I bypassed the phone number verification process in a website. I'm also going to explain why this was possible and what we can do to prevent this type of vulnerability.  
  
# What is phone number verification
  
When you create an account in some website, sometimes they ask you to verify the phone number that you informe in the registration process. They send a SMS to the number you provided and ask you to type the code that came in that message. This way, they know that the number you informed is really yours. Doing that means that your account is now linked with an official mobile phone number, which is linked to your name. This is a form of identity verification.  

# Why do they ask for a mobile number verification
  
These verification processes allow the websites to link the accounts to real people. They do so because they want to prevent mass account creation by bots. This also helps to keep hackers from doing bad things using those accounts, because if they do, their mobile numbers are attached to their accounts, making it easier to identify them.

# The wrong way to implement mobile number verification

To implement such security measure, we first have to know what are the best practices and also what are the types of attacks possible for this kind of scenario.  
  
  
Today it's not difficult to find free tools that automate various types of attacks against number verification processes. Based on that, we have to keep in mind for example how many digits the codes sent via SMS must have. Today, most online banking applications use seven or eight digit codes to login to the website and even to authorize transactions.  
Using a four digit code today, for example, is not a secure way to verify a phone number, as we'll see in this post. This is due to the fact that there are countless tools on the internet able to bruteforce ten thousand numbers (the number of four digit codes, from 0000 to 9999).  
  
Another thing that websites have to keep in mind is the number of wrong tries when a person submits a code. What I mean is that we have to make sure the website does not allow bruteforcing the code. This can be prevented by puting some kind of limitation when a person enters a code. One way to do that is to force the user to send a new code and invalidate the previous after a small number of wrong tries. 
  
# The attack
  
I was creating a new account for me on a website and when I went to the account settings area, I saw that they ask to verify my phone number. I followed the process and they sent a SMS to my phone, wihch I received in just a few seconds. The code was 2161, just four digits. When I saw that, I though "well, lets verify my number AND make a poc". The first thing that I did was to boot up my Kali and fire up Burp Suite. Burp is a tool to perform security assessments on web applications. It's a robust tool and even in its free version, a lot can be done.  
Burp acts like a proxy, it stands between your browser and the web server. Doing that allows you to see all the requests that your browser generates and also the web server responses, all that before the requests/responses get to their destinations. You can also modify those requests/responses to trick the web server and sometimes bypass some security implementations.  
So, I used those funcions that burp provides to see how the request generated by the application after we type the code we received on the website looks like.  
  


# The Python code

When I read about this machine learning game, the first thing that came to my mind was that I wanted to implement this in Python and put it in a Telegram bot. So [here](https://github.com/ualvesdias/HexaPawnGame) is the code and [here](https://t.me/hexapawnbot) is the Telegram bot. To represent the matchboxes I used a python dictionary. I came up with a system to represent the board states and the moves with numbers, and for each of the machine's losses, I can remove the moves that cause the loss as well as all of the other moves in the case of winning (I opted not to go with the probability approach. Also, keep in mind that this choice is a negative reinforcement. I'm removing items from the system that will cause the machine to "learn" and apply this learning next time it bumps into the same situation).

***

Well, that's it. This was a really fun project to make. I learned so much about the fundamentals of machine learning, and I value the fundamentals a lot! One last thing: if you found an error of any kind or just have a sugestion of improvement for this article or the python code, dont hesitate in contact me at ulisses.alves@youre.exposed. I'll be more than happy to get a feedback from you!  
  
## UOLAYFIRERTRUAESBEILHIDUBGSCNOKLYFUROUSOECYACSSSTUSNOIKHOYLHOSAUEBMLOEC
